This semester in Latin has been quite an interesting one. To begin with, it was my first time completing a semester fully online though it was not my fist language course that I took online. I have studied Chinese for the past three years, going to Taiwan in spring of 2020, and taking online Chinese classes when I was sent home. Obviously, the two languages are extremely different: Chinese uses characters and does not have tenses or gender. When you want to explicate those two categories, you must use a specific time or gendered word or phrase. Latin, however, is similar to English in its complexity of rules. This is why, I think, that Latin is a great language to teach in Worcester schools. Not only is it similar to English grammar rules, but it also provides a basis for many English words. The work we did in CBL, in making games for kids to try, will help them create a connection between Latin and English, how Latin continues to function in our modern day lives. This will help them, like it did me, understand the history of Latin, from its usage by ancient Romans to its integration into thousands of Greco-Roman myths to how it has been utilized by underlying powers of structure (wealth, race, gender) to misconstrue Latin as a an area of academia available only to the privileged. We learned early on, however, that this was not entirely the case, and that Black scholars have always existed, but have been marginalized, including William Henry Crogman and Helen Maria Chestnutt. One of the more difficult, but also more liberating, aspect of Latin is its specificity. Its gendered nature and the tendency of its tenses to denote power to a certain group all have contributed to Latin’s status as a language available only to a select few, and for its status to continue as so for centuries, despite notable breakthroughs. However, latin’s specificity also allows for the opposite to happen: through its wide range of gender nouns and pronouns, a diverse amount people can be identified as they choose to be and through its many tenses and their implications, power and agency can be accorded to a plethora of groups, not just the traditional ones. In short, Latin and its inherent complexity can be used to return agency to people and to construct a more pluralized, equal society. It is critical that this be taught, not only in Latin classes, but in every language class. Language matters in our construction of our individual and collective identities and in diction and syntax, we can assist in attempts to create a more just society.
